# Purpose

Aliases for `#[allow(...)]` local lint permissions/suppressions. You can have multiple aliases, each
with its name - semantic.

## The problem

Let's say you `#[allow(...)]` the same lint (either `rustc` standard (prefixless) lint, or lints
prefixed with `clippy::` or `rustdoc::`), and you do so at many places in your code. Even though
it's the same lint, you may have different reasons for allowing it. However, `#[allow(...)]` doesn't
carry your intention.

Unfortunately, we can't alias lints with `use` either. (Why? Because lint names are not (proc)
macros, but special compiler symbols.) Of course, you could add a comment, but that's haphazard.

This crate defines one attribute macro per each lint (other than crate-level only lints, more
below). Those macros don't take any attribute parameters. They inject `#[allow(lint-name-here)]` in
front of your code.

You can import same macros as many times under as many names you need. For example:

- `use allow::anonymous_parameters as allow_anonymous_params_legacy;`
- `use allow::rustdoc_missing_doc_code_examples as allow_rustdoc_examples_linked;`
- `use allow::rustdoc_missing_doc_code_examples as allow_rustdoc_examples_none_trivial;`
- `use allow::clippy_await_holding_lock as allow_clippy_await_holding_lock;`

Then apply `#[allow_anonymous_params_legacy]`, `#[allow_rustdoc_examples_linked]`,
`#[allow_rustdoc_examples_none_trivial]`, `#allow_clippy_await_holding_lock` (or as you name them)
before your struct/enum/function/variable..., indicating your intention.

Side benefit: Rust would validate the (aliased) names, hence no typos. So you can `grep` or search
for them at anytime. Your team could have a prelude-like module, or crate, re-exporting the aliases.

## Scope

### In scope

- Rust versions 1.45, 1.49.0, 1.52.1, 1.58.1, 1.61.0, 1.69.0, 1.70.0-beta.1, 1.71.0-nightly and
  maybe some, but seemingly **not** all, versions in between. See ["Out of scope"](#out-of-scope)
  below.
- `stable` and `nightly` (but we may need your help with maintenance).
- `rustc` lints ("standard" with no prefix); `clippy::` & `rustdoc::` lints. But mostly lints that
  are current.
- Clippy: `allow` version `0.1.0` has all Clippy lints supported by Rust 1.45`. The author is adding
  newer lints (and specifying version ranges for lints that have been deprecated/removed later).

### Limited scope

- Negative build tests for Rust below `1.63` (down to `1.45`). If we do use
[`ui_test`](https://github.com/oli-obk/ui_test) crate for testing, we can fully test only from Rust
1.63. Alternatively, could you help implement the negative build tests with
[`trybuild`](https://github.com/dtolnay/trybuild) crate?
  
  Lints (macros) **do** get validated for those lower Rust versions, too. And the tests that require
  Rust `1.63+` cover functionality that is used for lower Rust versions, too. Meaning: This is well
  tested.
- The autogenerated Rustdoc for lint macros can't mention the original lint being aliased in Rust
  below `1.54`. The best we can do is: "Alias to `#[allow(...)]` a lint with a similar name as
  imported from allow or allow_prefixed."
- Support for all possible Rust versions since `1.45`. Adding lints (macros), marking them as
  obsolete and removing them based on Rust version is not automated. Mistakes happen. Help report
  them and fix them.

  The good news: Thanks to our test suite, fixes for any mistakes mean only extending the range of
  compatible Rust versions (for any lint in question), but never restricting the range. Hence, any
  fixes are backward compatible.

### Out of scope

- **some** Rust versions, like 1.63, 1.65.0, 1.66.1, 1.67.0, 1.67.1, 1.68.0, 1.68.2 (at least so for
  the mainstream x64 Linux target: `x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu`). Why? Because they don't support some
  `rustc` (standard, prefixless) lints, even though those lints exist in both some earlier **and**
  later versions. However, some major versions in-between may work. And some older versions, **are**
  supported. See above.
- Lint groups (like `#[allow(unused)]`). Indeed, they do have their place (for example: fast
  prototyping). But they are contrary to the purpose of this crate: To differentiate between the use
  cases of ignoring the same lint.
- Crate level-only ("inner") attributes. They don't work with `#[allow(...)]`, but only with
  `#![allow(...)]` and only at crate level. That means (in general) much fewer repetitions than
  `#[allow(...)]` sprinkled around the code (granular).of these - and even if you do, 

  ---- <- TODO

  You can give thumbs up to [rust-lang/rust #54726](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/54726).
  Suppose it is implemented. However, top level attributes would most likely have to come before any
  `use` aliases, so we wouldn't be able to alias macros generating `#![allow(...)]` anyway,
  unfortunately - no semantic benefit. (We could alias them in other modules or crates, and call
  them without any `use` imports - with a fully qualified path, like
  `#![our_allow_crate::lints::non_ascii_idents_legacy]` or
  `#![crate::lints::non_ascii_idents_third_party]`. To be seen.)
- `Beta` version of `rustc` specifics. `Beta` version incubation is only for 6 weeks. Or, would you
  help maintain this?
- Rust older than `1.45`. If there is high demand, we could potentially support down to `1.31`
  (needed by [`rustversion`](https://crates.io/crates/rustversion) crate.) But then we'd have an
  ugly and more complicated proc macro.
  
  If you would benefit from `allow`, it's most likely when the lints you are suppressing are wide
  spread. Hence, if you choose to refactor so much code, wouldn't you as well like to upgrade it to
  newer Rust?
- Custom lints (such as [with
Dylint](https://blog.trailofbits.com/2021/11/09/write-rust-lints-without-forking-clippy/)). Possible
in principle - will you commit to maintain it?

## Reporting Issues and Known issues

The tests don't cover `rustdoc::` and `clippy::` well yet. And `clippy::` lints are as of Rust
version `1.45` (for now).

See also [coop-rs/allow > issues](https://github.com/coop-rs/allow/issues).

## Related issues - give thumbs up, please

- [`thread_local!` failing for proc macros](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/66003)
- [`#[thread_local]` (attribute) stabilization](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/29594)
- [Partial stabilization of once_cell](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/105587)
- [standard lazy types](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2788)
- [`concat_idents`](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/29599)

## Efficient proc macros

This does use procedural macros (specifically: [attribute
macros](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch19-06-macros.html#attribute-like-macros)). Many:
One per lint.

Yes, proc macros often slow compilation down. Proc macros usually use
[syn](https://crates.io/crates/syn) and [quote](https://crates.io/crates/syn) crates. Those are
powerhouses, which parse & quote the code that a macro can inject. However, their power comes with a
cost: build time.

But, not so for these macros. `allow` does not parse the new (generated) code into a `TokenStream`
(before it's injected where you use it). Instead, it composes it (through the proc_macro API).

The tests do have many more dependencies (if we continue to use `ui_test` - as `trybuild` may be
much faster). So don't judge its speed by `cargo test`, but by `cargo build`. (Also, some tests
don't run on Windows - see See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md#testing). Of course, the actual
crates themselves are platform-independent.)

## Crates, crates.io and GIT

This project consists of four crates (and potentially a fifth one may come). Three of them are on
crates.io: `allow`, `allow_impl` and `allow_internal`. The fourth one, `allow_tests`, is not on
crates.io, because it is for testing only. (TODO If we continue with `ui_test`, move its
non-ui_test-dependent parts to a fifth crate, so we run them for Rust below 1.63, too.)

They are all under the same [GIT repo](https://github.com/coop-rs/allow), which simplifies
maintenance.

## Contributing

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md).

Do you know of anyone with
- experience with https://github.com/dtolnay/trybuild, or with https://github.com/oli-obk/ui_test,
  or
- knowledge or involvement in versioning/planning/source code life cycle of rustc (prefixless)
  lints, (less so `rustdoc::` - few), or (very much so) `clippy::` lints, or
- experience with using many lints or using them frequently, and handling their changes coming from
  rustc/rustdoc/clippy?

## License

Allow project is distributed under the terms of both the MIT license and the Apache License (Version
2.0).

See [LICENSE-APACHE](LICENSE-APACHE), [LICENSE-MIT](LICENSE-MIT), and [COPYRIGHT](COPYRIGHT) for
details.
